---
title: "Release Notes - MapLink Pro - Version 11.3.1"
release: 11.3.1
previous: ../11.2/11.2.7
---

# Release Notes - MapLink Pro - Version {{ page.release }}

## Related Pages

- [Previous Release]({{ page.previous }})

- [Supported Platforms](../../support/platform-support)
- [Supported SDKs](../../support/sdk-support.md)

## Improvements
- **4453 WPF Drawing Surface**
- **6056 Avalonia UI 2D drawing surface**

>[**New! Cross-platform Drawing Surface**](../../features/cross-platform-surface)
    
MapLink Pro 11.3.1 introduces a major step forward in the platform’s evolution towards supporting cross-platform, code-once-deploy-anywhere geospatial applications. This version of MapLink Pro delivers *early releases* of a new **Skia‑based 2D rendering foundation** and modern **.NET UI integrations for WPF and Avalonia**.

These enhancements address longstanding limitations in UI embedding and platform portability, and establish the groundwork for future MapLink Pro capabilities.

> **IMPORTANT**: This release updates our .NET libraries to .NET 10 and MSVC 2026 (v145).

## Known Issues
- Custom data layers not yet integrated with Skia rendering and therefore cannot yet be used with the Skia drawing surface, WPF control or Avalonia control.
- Tracks SDK not yet integrated with Skia rendering and therefore cannot yet be used with the Skia drawing surface, WPF control or Avalonia control.
- DDO SDK not yet integrated with Skia rendering and therefore cannot yet be used with the Skia drawing surface, WPF control or Avalonia control.
- Skia line rendering goes wrong on zoom on linux.
- Skia raster handling not implemented on linux.
