---
title: "Basic MapLink Applications"
---

# Basic MapLink Applications


At its simplest level, the MapLink Core SDK can be summarised in three
concepts and two sentences.

- Data is loaded into Layers.

- Layers are displayed on Drawing Surfaces.

Of course you\'ll probably need more detailed information before you
design your application, and this section is intended to give you that
information.

## Application Architecture

MapLink has almost unparalleled flexibility amongst GIS components. At
the heart of this lies the fact that MapLink is essentially passive. It
does not create any windows, nor trap any events. The drawback of this
design decision is that you need to add a few extra lines to your code.
The benefit is that you don\'t have to design the rest of your
application around MapLink - it will bend to fit into whatever
architecture is most suited to your problem domain.

### The Document/View Model

A common architecture in today's applications is the Document/View
model. This is partly due to the popularity of Microsoft's MFC library,
but it just so happens that MapLink fits very neatly into this type of
application.

The document can be thought of as a MapLink Data Layer, or more likely,
a set of Data Layers. The Core SDK contains several specialisations of
the base Data Layer, each capable of displaying different types of data.
The most common is the TSLMapDataLayer. This manages and displays maps
that have been generated by MapLink Studio. Another common Data Layer is
the TSLStandardDataLayer. This is typically used to display simple
vector overlays but can also be utilised by the Editor SDK for complex
interactive drawing.

The View concept maps directly onto the MapLink TSLDrawingSurface. In
the same way that a View is a visualisation of a Document, a
TSLDrawingSurface visualises a set of TSLDataLayer's that have been
attached to it. As described above, MapLink is passive, so relevant
events should be managed by the application and passed onto MapLink.

For simple applications that merely visualise data, MapLink will only be
interested in the initialisation, resize and paint events. These should
generally be passed onto the TSLDrawingSurface. More complex
applications that use the Editor SDK may also need to pass mouse events
onto the TSLEditor class.

The MapLink samples and user applications created using the MapLink
AppWizards (see section [3.2](#maplink-pro-visual-studio-wizards)) also
provide a suite of utility classes that assist in managing mouse events
to control zooming and panning of the Drawing Surface. These are
provided in source code form so that they can be easily modified and
enhanced to suit your particular application.

Note that these concepts apply equally to single or multiple document
interfaces. A Data Layer may be displayed in many different Drawing
Surfaces, and a Drawing Surface may display many different Data Layers.
Each Drawing Surface is independent of the others and may display a
different part of the Data Layer or be at a different zoom level.

### Error Handling

In keeping with its passive nature, MapLink will not interrupt your
application by throwing exceptions or bringing up an error dialog.
Instead, it maintains an internal stack of errors that have occurred and
returns a failure status from those methods that fail. The error stack
may be accessed through the TSLThreadedErrorStack utility class. (This
class is a thread-safe version of the TSLErrorStack class which it
supersedes). TSLErrorStack is retained for backwards compatibility
purposes but its use is discouraged. .NET users have the TSLNErrorStack
class, which is a wrapper around the TSLThreadedErrorStack class, for
provision of thread-safe access to the stack.

Error reports on the error stack are encoded in an error number with an
associated string to provide further information, such as a filename.
Some pre-processor constants and descriptive comments for each error are
defined in header files supplied with the MapLink Core SDK. These are
the '\*err.h' files in the include directory. These allow the
application to identify the error that has occurred and handle it in a
graceful manner.

#### Error Messages

The Error message strings are stored as a series of message files, which
are contained in the config directory, all having a 'msg' file ending.
Only the primary message string is contained in these files. Additional
information may be generated by the SDK when an error occurs.

The controlling message file is 'allmaplinkerrors.msg'. This file will
only be loaded when the developer requests textual information on the
Error.

The 'msg' files only provide additional information, so if they do not
exist, then MapLink will provide basic information. The controlling
message file can also be trimmed to reduce the loaded message strings.

Typically you may exclude the 'msg' files when memory is at a premium.

### View and Interaction Modes

Most applications will require some sort of navigation controls such as
pan and zoom. To assist with the implementation of these, Envitia supply
a suite of useful interaction modes in source code form. The Windows
MapLink samples provide the relevant source code, which can be easily
incorporated into your own application and modified to suit your
requirements.

## MapLink Pro Visual Studio Wizards

This initial release does not include any Visual Studio 2015 wizards for
generation of simple samples.

We would suggest using one of the samples provided in the installation
as a start point for the various walkthroughs.

The Wizards will be updated via a subsequent patch.

## Coordinates and Positions

MapLink uses several different types of coordinate storage. These are
optimised for particular uses.

Map Units (MU) are the basic Cartesian units generated by the Coordinate
System applied to a map within MapLink Studio. These are dependent upon
the transformations applied but are generally mapped to nominal metres
in the chosen map coordinate system. The origin of this coordinate space
is typically the centre of the map projection that has been applied,
modified by any false easting and northing.

Related to Map Units, User Units are available through the Core SDK.
They are simply scaled and offset versions of Map Units. Thus, if Map
Units were in metres, a User Unit scale of 1000 could be applied so that
the map may be referenced in kilometres. Likewise, the origin could be
offset to the centre of the map space, the lower left corner or some
other user-defined position. The current view of a Drawing Surface is
generally specified in terms xof User Units.

Latitude and Longitude are typically used for real world positions. It
is important to note that latitude/longitude coordinates are in
themselves of no value since they are only applicable to a particular
reference datum. In MapLink, this is assumed by default to be the
reference datum of the map\'s Output Coordinate System. A flag on the
conversion functions allows this to be referenced via WGS84 instead. The
Drawing Surface contains methods that allow the current view to be set
by specifying a latitude/longitude position and a range in map units.
This is particularly useful when using the Dynamic Projection
capabilities of MapLink, since the underlying Coordinate System, and
hence the Map Unit scale and origin may change.

TMC units are the internal integer units that MapLink uses to store its
geometry. These are independent of map and Drawing Surface and are used
to create new geometric primitives.

Device Units are the reference system of the output display device that
a Drawing Surface is attached to. These will typically be pixels, but
under some circumstances, such as MFC Print Preview, these are modified
to represent some other device.

The Drawing Surface and Map Data Layer classes contain methods for
conversion between these various coordinate systems.

## Configuration Data

MapLink holds style information in various configuration files. These
configuration files provide a mapping between internal styles or colour
ID's and their visualisations.

Standard configuration files for line-styles, fill-styles, fonts,
symbols and colours are provided in the installed MapLink config
directory. When a style is attached to a Feature Class or to an Entity,
it stores the style ID. The run-time rendering engine looks up the ID in
the currently loaded style list.

The configuration data is held statically so usually need only be loaded
once per application run. The exception to this is the colours file.
This is held statically but may need to be reloaded to match the palette
for a particular map. This means that if multiple maps are displayed in
a single application then they must be created using the same palette.

## Map Display using TSLMapDataLayer

The TSLMapDataLayer object manages the display of a Map that has been
produced by MapLink Studio. These Maps consist of several configuration
files and a set of vector or raster tiles. The TSLMapDataLayer maintains
a configurable memory cache of tiles and an optional, configurable disk
cache of tiles. The latter is often used for remote or Internet based
systems.

As described in the MapLink Studio documentation, a map can consist of
several detail layers, each usually representing a particular area of
interest at a particular level of detail or zoom with further
optimisation available through tiling. A TSLMapDataLayer will
automatically choose the appropriate detail layer according to
configuration parameters set in MapLink Studio. Once a detail layer is
chosen, the TSLMapDataLayer will manage the loading and caching of
relevant tiles. This is the default behaviour. For specific
requirements, the Data Layer can be forced to display a particular
detail layer as long as the automatic detail layer selection is
disabled.



---

[← MapLink SDK Components and Concepts](sdk-components) | [Unicode →](unicode)
