---
title: "MapLink SDK Components and Concepts"
---

# MapLink SDK Components and Concepts


This section gives an overview of each SDK, so that you can determine
which of the numerous MapLink Pro components will provide the best
facilities for your solution.

![MapLink
Image](/assets/images/developers-guide/media/image3.jpeg)

## MapLink Studio

MapLink Studio is a sophisticated map processing tool. It allows fusion
of a wide range of vector and raster map data with transformation and
re-projection into a single integrated picture. As a standalone
application, it is usually used off-line to create highly optimised
maps. The generated maps are in turn used by user applications built
with the suite of MapLink SDK components. MapLink Studio is also a COM
Automation Server so can be used on-line and driven by a user
application if necessary. More details of MapLink Studio may be found in
the other documentation supplied with your MapLink Pro installation,
notably the 'MapLink Pro Studio Users Guide'.

## Core SDK

The Core SDK is the basis of all MapLink Pro applications. Like all
MapLink SDK\'s, it is modular and flexible. Unlike many other products,
MapLink does not dictate the architecture of your application. It is
flexible enough to be easily integrated into whatever architecture best
fits your application domain.

The Core SDK provides the following basic facilities to a MapLink
application:

- Visualisation of vector maps and overlays

- Visualisation of raster maps and overlays

- Loading of vector and raster data

- A suite of vector geometric primitives

- Access to attributes stored within maps generated by MapLink Studio.

- Management of configuration information

- Layering and decluttering of features

- Access to the powerful coordinate system engine for map
  transformations

- Control of Dynamic Projections for appropriate maps generated by
  MapLink Studio

- Multi-threaded, progressive map display for smooth, responsive
  applications

- Double buffering and other optimisation techniques

## OpenGL Drawing Surface

The OpenGL drawing surface allows an application to take advantage of
hardware acceleration to enable high performance visualisations on both
desktop and mobile platforms.

The drawing surface provided by this SDK may be used as a drop-in
replacement for the GDI and X11 drawing surfaces in many situations.

This drawing surface provides additional performance-oriented
functionality including the ability to reproject the data in real time.

## Direct Import SDK

The Direct Import SDK allows an application to load a wide variety of
raster and vector data formats at runtime in a scalable and performant
manner.

This SDK provides the ability to reproject data to the specified output
coordinate system along with various vector and raster processing
options.

Many of the options and concepts used by the Direct Import Layer are
like those in MapLink Studio.

This includes the ability to export a feature rendering configuration
from MapLink Studio in order to style vector data within the Direct
Import Layer.

##  Tracks SDK

The Envitia Tracks SDK provides simple map display and navigation using
tracks functionality through a .Net and C++ API.

The Tracks SDK is appropriate for customers who wish to deliver
MapLink\'s highly regarded performance and spatial data visualisation
capabilities.

Features include support for:

- Visualisation of real-world entities through Track Display Manager(s).

- Track styling using application-defined symbols or using APP6A and
  2525B symbology.

- Track Level of Detail (LOD) visualisations.

- History: The ability to display tracks at any time in the past.

- Track history point trails.

- Direction indicators.

- Visibility of tracks.

- Track selection.

## Dynamic Data Object SDK

The Dynamic Data Object SDK allows developers to create fully dynamic
overlays within a MapLink application. Each object within this overlay
can have application specific data associated with it through custom
derivations of the base class. The architecture splits the real-world
Data Object from the visualisation, allowing the same object to be
displayed in different ways and in different positions according to
application specific rules.

MapLink automatically manages the creation and destruction of the
Display Objects that visualise the real-world Data Objects. By default,
you have access to the underlying MapLink Rendering Engine used to draw
the maps, but if required, you can also override the draw routines
allowing any application specific optimisations or features to be
employed.

## Editor SDK

The Editor SDK provides facilities for the interactive creation and
manipulation of vector overlays. It provides a suite of interactive
operations, a customisable operation management interface and components
that allow for application specific specialisation of existing
operations. In addition, there are components for new application
specific operations. The management layer allows all operations to
interact with the underlying map or other vector data.

## Terrain SDK

The Terrain SDK provides fast access to layered terrain data that has
been prepared through MapLink Studio. The methods on the Terrain
Database object allow for query of spot, line and area height
information making fast terrain calculations straightforward.

The SDK also allows for generation of contour lines or polygons from an
arbitrary data source. Rendering of this contour information is fully
controlled by the application.

## MapLink 3D Earth SDK

For software development teams who want to develop and augment high
performance three dimensional (3D) displays into their situational
awareness mission systems, the MapLink Earth SDK is a software
development kit that leverages the highly performant, mature MapLink API
and geospatial capabilities of the MapLink software suite with the 3D
visualisation capabilities of osgEarth.

Envitia's MapLink Earth SDK provides an API very similar to the legacy
MapLink 3D API. Its current capabilities include:

- Applying MapLink's terrain model to 3D model topology;

- Draping MapLink's 2D map layers over terrain;

- MapLink Tracks with optional altitude dimension;

- Billboarded icon symbology.

The MapLink Earth SDK provides the following functionality:

- Draping of MapLink 2D data layers (TSLMapDataLayer,
  TSLLatLongGridDataLayer, TSLStandardDataLayer) over a 3D terrain;

- Loading of terrain from MapLink Terrain Databases;

- Control of the 3D camera, in the style of the TSL3DCamera class;

- Display of 3D geometry/extruded 2D geometry;

- Visualization of tracked objects as billboarded 2D symbols.

The MapLink Earth SDK is provided as a shared library and header files.
The MapLink Earth SDK introduces a new abstract base class
(TSLDrawingSurfaceBase) that supports functionality common to both 2D
and 3D drawing surfaces. Abstracted functionality includes general layer
management principles, support for 2D layers, and other similar
operations.

In 2D, manipulations to the map are performed directly on the map --
rotation, panning, zooming, etc. In 3D, the canonical implementation is
not to manipulate the scene, but instead to alter the viewpoint onto the
scene via a camera construct, representing the viewer position and
orientation. The camera can pan, tilt and zoom in response to any input
desired by the developer.

The ability to chroma-key the 3D scene over a video feed (or any other
alternative backdrop) is supported by rendering the scene with a solid,
configurable background colour.

Applications can use the SDK to display multiple surfaces using the same
shared or discrete data objects, which may be configured with different
cameras and visualization parameters.

The SDK supports display of tracked objects as 2D billboards. Rendering
can be defined by MapLink vector entities or symbols, MapLink raster
symbols and rasterized MapLink military symbols. Track objects provide
an elevation dimension to support positioning of the object on or above
ground.

## OWSContext SDK

The [OWSContext](http://www.owscontext.org/) SDK allows a User to read,
analyse, and display [OWSContext](http://www.owscontext.org/) documents
within MapLink.

This SDK can read several offering types from an OWSContext document and
provides a plugin interface to allow other offering types to be
integrated with the SDK.

- GML

- WMS

- WMTS

## MapLink OGC Services

The MapLink OGC Services SDK should be used to construct one of the OGC
Services that MapLink implements. Currently MapLink supports the
following OGC Service implementations:

- The Web Map Service (WMS)

- The Web Processing Service (WPS)

### The Web Map Service

The MapLink [Web Map Service
(WMS)](http://www.opengeospatial.org/standards/wms) provides a framework
for serving maps across the internet using standard OGC protocols. The
MapLink WMS supports all versions of the OGC Specifications including
the latest 1.3.0 version.

### The Web Processing Service

The MapLink [Web Processing Service
(WPS)](http://www.opengeospatial.org/standards/wps) provides a framework
for geospatial web-services in accordance with version 1.0.0 of the OGC
specification. The MapLink WPS framework provides the ability to deploy
a general purpose \"process\" via the WPS so that a compatible client
can utilise it across a network or the Internet. A \"process\" could for
instance be an operation that converts geospatial data from one format
to another, but in truth could be any type of operation that takes zero
or more inputs and returns one or more outputs.

## GeoPackage SDK

The GeoPackage SDK allows the user to read, analyse and display data
from GeoPackage data files.

A GeoPackage is a platform-independent SQLite database schema for
storing and transferring geographic vector features and image tiles. The
schema contains specified definitions, integrity assertions, format
limitations and content constraints.

A GeoPackage may be "empty" (contain user data table(s) for vector
features and/or tile matrix pyramids with no row record content) or
contain one or many vector feature type records and/or one or many tile
matrix pyramid tile images. GeoPackage metadata can describe GeoPackage
data contents and identify external data synchronisation sources and
targets. A GeoPackage may contain spatial indexes on feature geometries.

## Spatial SDK

The Spatial SDK, also known as the LandLink SDK, is formed of two main
components.

The first component comprises a set of specialised operations built upon
the basic Editor SDK. These operations employ powerful spatial analysis
techniques to allow construction of vector data derived from the
underlying map. Other custom operations construct specialised graphical
primitives especially suited to the Land Registration market.

The second component of the Spatial SDK is a suite of configurable
utility classes that provide further map data analysis tools for the
automatic construction of Land Registration polygons. Combined with
access to address databases such as QuickAddress, this provides a
powerful batch processing solution.

The Spatial SDK has also been enhanced with the ability to identify and
process self-contained 'islands' of changed data, where an island is
defined as being a contiguous set of features.

## CADRG Exporter SDK

The CADRG Exporter SDK provides the ability to incorporate the
generation of CADRG and CIB within an application using MapLink.

## GML SDK

The GML SDK provides the ability to both read and write OpenGIS®
Geography Mark-up Language (GML) version 3.1.1 application schemas and
instance data which conform to the Simple Feature Profile Level 0
(SF-0).

## S63 SDK

The S63 SDK allows an OEM to develop an IHO compliant S63 application.

Please refer to the \"MapLink S63 SDK Developers Guide\".

## Deprecated SDKs

### 3D SDK

Please note that the deprecated Envitia 3D SDK is no-longer under
development. It has been superseded by the MapLink Earth SDK, see
Section [2.9](#maplink-3d-earth-sdk).

The 3D SDK extends the capabilities of the Core SDK by allowing users to
be immersed in rich geospatial models. The architecture of the 3D SDK is
very flexible and parallels that of the existing 2D Core SDK -- thus
maximising reuse of current MapLink experience. Standard MapLink
concepts such as Drawing Surfaces, Data Layers, Terrain Databases and
Entities are extended into the 3D space. 2D or 3D Data Layers may be
used interchangeably across 2D or 3D Drawing Surfaces -- 2D layers may
be draped over height fields when displayed on 3D Drawing Surfaces,
whilst 3D layers are displayed in plan view on 2D Drawing Surfaces. The
Data Layer concept has been extended to allow Terrain Data Layers which
are added to the 3D Drawing Surface to provide height information.



---

[← Introduction](/pages/developers-guide/introduction) | [Basic MapLink Applications →](/pages/developers-guide/basic-applications)
